# A comparison between a RNN, Random Forestand Na ̈ıve Bayes in sentiment analysis
### Jille van der Togt
### March 2020
## 1. Abstract
Sentiment analysis is one of the most important aspects of natural language processing (NLP). Its usage varies a lot, from customer service to personal assistants. The aim of sentiment analysis is to understand what emotion the user is trying to express. In this research we compared three algorithms and their performance in categorizing movie reviews as either a positive or negative sentiment. The goal was to find the best model and in which areas they excel. We created a recurrent neural network, a naïve Bayes classifier and a random forest. All three models were tested on accuracy, training time, sample time and storage space. The accuracy of all three models was quite similar but they differed a lot in the other metrics. The conclusion is that each model has a specific application area which is determined by how the user plans on using the model. 
## 2. Introdcution
### 2.1 Background
Sentiment analysis is becoming increasingly important in the use of text catego-rization.  Sentiment analysis tries to assess what emotion the user is displaying.Sentiment analysis is necessary because there are vast amounts of data needed tobe analyzed, and this exceeds human capacity.  For big companies, who get tensof  thousands  of  reviews  and  feedback  pieces  per  month,  it  is  important  thatthese  get  interpreted,  labeled  and  used  for  improvement  of  processes.   Thereare several reasons for this.  For instance, (Lipsman, 2007) concluded that be-tween 73% and 87% of online shoppers base their purchase on reviews.  Also(Hochreiter, 1998) concluded that consumers are willing to pay more than 20%extra on products with a five-star review than a four-star review.  If these com-panies  can  correctly  classify  feedback  pieces,  learn  from  it  and  process  theselessons, they can better satisfy customers. This is just one example of why sentiment analysis is important but thereare many others:  personal assistants like Siri, translation services like Googletranslate or products like chat bots and customer support.This paper aims to develop three different models to predict the sentiment ofa text sample and then compares these three models in terms of accuracy, timetaken and storage space.  The results might be used by companies in decidingwhich model for sentiment analysis to choose from:  a recurrent neural network(RNN), a na ̈ıve Bayes classifier or a random forest.

### 2.2 Questions
This paper aims to answer the question which of the three models will performthe best in sentiment analysis on the IMDB dataset of movie reviews (Maas etal., 2011).  The questions which need to be answered are:
* Which model performs best in terms of accuracy? *The  RNN  is  expected  to  outperform  the  other  classifiers  in  terms  of  ac-curacy.   This  is  because  this  model  is  versatile;  it  can  change  and  adaptto new instances well.  This is not the case for the random forest becauseit overfits extremely and the Bayes will lack as well because it is a na ̈ıve1model.*
